Now those administrative tools are nice,
but they're not specific to Windows Server.
Let's say you are a new systems administrator and you want to be
able to manage Windows Server users and groups,
Windows Server features, this sort of stuff.
Your go-to for this is what's called the Remote Server Administration Tools,
or RSAT tools.
I did a Google search for RSAT tools and I came to this page,
yes, it's linked in the exercise files, and essentially,
it tells us right here that from our Windows 10 machine,
we can remotely administer Windows Server 2012 and 2012 R2,
2008, 2008 R2.
One thing you'll find is that there is normally a little bit of a
delay when Microsoft releases a new version of Windows Server
before the RSAT tools are available.
I'm going to come down towards the bottom,
and I'll download the RSAT package for Windows 10,
and I'll click Download here.
Oh, okay, so even though it wasn't in the text,
it looks like I can,
there is a separate package that we can download for
Windows Server 2016 administration.
X64 is what I want because I'm on a 64-bit environment and I'm going to open
this MSU file directly once it comes down to my machine.
It looks like it's a little under a 100 MB.
Do I want to install this?
Yes, I do.
It comes down as a Windows Update Standalone Installer,
that's what the MSU file type is.
I'm going to accept the license terms and let the update install.
While that's cooking actually, let me come down to Cortana and type msconfig.
This is the system configuration utility.
And notice we were not prompted for administrative credentials that time.
If you're troubleshooting say let's say you've updated your video
driver for your video card and you're having problems,
inconsistent crashes and so on,
you can do a Selective startup here and be picky and choosy,
if you don't mind the technical language about whether you
want to load those system services or not,
load your autostart items, that's what Selective startup is.
You want to be more dramatic,
you can actually do what's called a Safe boot and a minimal safe boot
loads just the bare minimum to get Windows up and you can even
suppress the GUI and come to a command line.
So basically, these two tabs are essentials for troubleshooting.
Now if your machine crashes before you get into Windows,
then there is some tacts that you can take,
but assuming you can get into Windows an open system configuration,
these are good options for that.
Let me reset that to Normal startup and apply that change.
We have the ability to enable or disable service here,
again, that's very good for troubleshooting.
If we want to remove the Microsoft services and just look at third-party ones,
you see I have Netwrix Auditor, that's a third-party auditing enhancer installed.
I have Google Chrome installed as well.
To do startup items, it looks like it's going to take us into Task Manager,
which is what we looked at in the previous module.
And then for tools, this is just a convenience.
You notice that we've been prompted for user account control.
We can launch that particular utility if you want to adjust the
slider in terms of how aggressively you want Windows 10 to prompt
you for administrative elevation.
So that's all there is to msconfig and it looks like the RSAT,
the Remote Server Administration Tools package has been successfully installed.
Let me see if for those tools or those snap-ins are available immediately.
I'll reopen my Admin Console, MMC, we'll go back to File, Add/Remove Snap-in.
Yep, it looks like they're available.
See Active Directory users and computers is what you use in
Windows Server environments to modify, drumroll please,
user and computer accounts in an Active Directory domain services domain.
And there is a little x there because number one,
this Windows 10 box is not connected to a domain. Well that's really all we need is number one right there.